# Astro recipes

> Short, focused how-to guides.

See guided examples of adding features to your Astro project.

## Official Recipes

[Section titled “Official Recipes”](#official-recipes)

Astro’s official recipes are short, focused how-to guides that walk a reader through completing a working example of a specific task. Recipes are a great way to add new features or behavior to your Astro project by following step-by-step instructions!

- ### [Installing a Vite or Rollup plugin](/en/recipes/add-yaml-support/)

  Learn how you can import YAML data by adding a Rollup plugin to your project.

- ### [Analyze bundle size](/en/recipes/analyze-bundle-size/)

  Learn how to analyze the bundle generated by Astro using \`rollup-plugin-visualizer\`.

- ### [Build a custom image component](/en/recipes/build-custom-img-component/)

  Learn how to build a custom image component that supports media queries using the getImage function.

- ### [Build forms with API routes](/en/recipes/build-forms-api/)

  Learn how to use JavaScript to send form submissions to an API Route.

- ### [Use Bun with Astro](/en/recipes/bun/)

  Learn how to use Bun with your Astro site.

- ### [Build HTML forms in Astro pages](/en/recipes/build-forms/)

  Learn how to build HTML forms and handle submissions in your frontmatter.

- ### [Call endpoints from the server](/en/recipes/call-endpoints/)

  Learn how to call endpoints from the server in Astro.

- ### [Verify a Captcha](/en/recipes/captcha/)

  Learn how to create an API route and fetch it from the client.

- ### [Customize file names in the build output](/en/recipes/customizing-output-filenames/)

  Learn how to change the default naming pattern for your built assets like JavaScript, CSS, and images in Astro using Vite's Rollup options.

- ### [Build your Astro site with Docker](/en/recipes/docker/)

  Learn how to build your Astro site using Docker.

- ### [Dynamically import images](/en/recipes/dynamically-importing-images/)

  Learn how to dynamically import images using Vite's import.meta.glob function.

- ### [Add icons to external links](/en/recipes/external-links/)

  Learn how to install a rehype plugin to add icons to external links in your Markdown files.

- ### [Add i18n features](/en/recipes/i18n/)

  Use dynamic routing and content collections to add internationalization support to your Astro site.

- ### [Create a dev toolbar app](/en/recipes/making-toolbar-apps/)

  Learn how to create a dev toolbar app for your site.

- ### [Add last modified time](/en/recipes/modified-time/)

  Build a remark plugin to add the last modified time to your Markdown and MDX.

- ### [Add reading time](/en/recipes/reading-time/)

  Build a remark plugin to add reading time to your Markdown or MDX files.

- ### [Add an RSS feed](/en/recipes/rss/)

  Add an RSS feed to your Astro site to let users subscribe to your content.

- ### [Share state between islands](/en/recipes/sharing-state-islands/)

  Learn how to share state across framework components with Nano Stores.

- ### [Share state between Astro components](/en/recipes/sharing-state/)

  Learn how to share state across Astro components with Nano Stores.

- ### [Using streaming to improve page performance](/en/recipes/streaming-improve-page-performance/)

  Learn how to use streaming to improve page performance.

- ### [Style rendered Markdown with Tailwind Typography](/en/recipes/tailwind-rendered-markdown/)

  Learn how to use @tailwind/typography to style your rendered Markdown.

## Community Resources

[Section titled “Community Resources”](#community-resources)

Find more recipes written and submitted by the community at [Astro Tips](https://astro-tips.dev).

# Installing a Vite or Rollup plugin

> Learn how you can import YAML data by adding a Rollup plugin to your project.

Astro builds on top of Vite, and supports both Vite and Rollup plugins. This recipe uses a Rollup plugin to add the ability to import a YAML (`.yml`) file in Astro.

## Recipe

[Section titled “Recipe”](#recipe)

1. Install `@rollup/plugin-yaml`:

   - npm

     ```shell
     npm install @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
     ```

   - pnpm

     ```shell
     pnpm add @rollup/plugin-yaml --save-dev
     ```

   - Yarn

     ```shell
     yarn add @rollup/plugin-yaml --dev
     ```

2. Import the plugin in your `astro.config.mjs` and add it to the Vite plugins array:

   astro.config.mjs

   ```diff
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
   +import yaml from '@rollup/plugin-yaml';


   export default defineConfig({
   +  vite: {
   +    plugins: [yaml()]
   +  }
   });
   ```

3. Finally, you can import YAML data using an `import` statement:

   ```js
   import yml from './data.yml';
   ```

   Note

   While you can now import YAML data in your Astro project, your editor will not provide types for the imported data. To add types, create or find an existing `*.d.ts` file in the `src` directory of your project and add the following:

   src/files.d.ts

   ```ts
   // Specify the file extension you want to import
   declare module "*.yml" {
     const value: any; // Add type definitions here if desired
     export default value;
   }
   ```

   This will allow your editor to provide type hints for your YAML data.
