## i18n

[Section titled “i18n”](#i18n)

**Type:** `object`

**Added in:** `astro@3.5.0`

Configures i18n routing and allows you to specify some customization options.

See our guide for more information on [internationalization in Astro](/en/guides/internationalization/)

### i18n.locales

[Section titled “i18n.locales”](#i18nlocales)

**Type:** `Locales`

**Added in:** `astro@3.5.0`

A list of all locales supported by the website. This is a required field.

Languages can be listed either as individual codes (e.g. `['en', 'es', 'pt-br']`) or mapped to a shared `path` of codes (e.g. `{ path: "english", codes: ["en", "en-US"]}`). These codes will be used to determine the URL structure of your deployed site.

No particular language code format or syntax is enforced, but your project folders containing your content files must match exactly the `locales` items in the list. In the case of multiple `codes` pointing to a custom URL path prefix, store your content files in a folder with the same name as the `path` configured.

### i18n.defaultLocale

[Section titled “i18n.defaultLocale”](#i18ndefaultlocale)

**Type:** `string`

**Added in:** `astro@3.5.0`

The default locale of your website/application, that is one of the specified `locales`. This is a required field.

No particular language format or syntax is enforced, but we suggest using lower-case and hyphens as needed (e.g. “es”, “pt-br”) for greatest compatibility.

### i18n.fallback

[Section titled “i18n.fallback”](#i18nfallback)

**Type:** `Record<string, string>`

**Added in:** `astro@3.5.0`

The fallback strategy when navigating to pages that do not exist (e.g. a translated page has not been created).

Use this object to declare a fallback `locale` route for each language you support. If no fallback is specified, then unavailable pages will return a 404.

##### Example

[Section titled “Example”](#example)

The following example configures your content fallback strategy to redirect unavailable pages in `/pt-br/` to their `es` version, and unavailable pages in `/fr/` to their `en` version. Unavailable `/es/` pages will return a 404.

```js
export default defineConfig({
  i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr", "pt-br", "es"],
    fallback: {
      pt: "es",
      fr: "en"
    }
  }
})
```

### i18n.routing

[Section titled “i18n.routing”](#i18nrouting)

**Type:** `object | "manual"`\
**Default:** `object`

**Added in:** `astro@3.7.0`

Controls the routing strategy to determine your site URLs. Set this based on your folder/URL path configuration for your default language.

```js
export default defineConfig({
  i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr"],
    routing: {
      prefixDefaultLocale: false,
      redirectToDefaultLocale: true,
      fallbackType: "redirect",
    }
  }
})
```

Since 4.6.0, this option can also be set to `manual`. When this routing strategy is enabled, Astro will **disable** its i18n middleware and no other `routing` options (e.g. `prefixDefaultLocale`) may be configured. You will be responsible for writing your own routing logic, or executing Astro’s i18n middleware manually alongside your own.

```js
export default defineConfig({
  i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr"],
    routing: "manual"
  }
})
```

#### i18n.routing.prefixDefaultLocale

[Section titled “i18n.routing.prefixDefaultLocale”](#i18nroutingprefixdefaultlocale)

**Type:** `boolean`\
**Default:** `false`

**Added in:** `astro@3.7.0`

When `false`, only non-default languages will display a language prefix. The `defaultLocale` will not show a language prefix and content files do not exist in a localized folder. URLs will be of the form `example.com/[locale]/content/` for all non-default languages, but `example.com/content/` for the default locale.

When `true`, all URLs will display a language prefix. URLs will be of the form `example.com/[locale]/content/` for every route, including the default language. Localized folders are used for every language, including the default.

```js
export default defineConfig({
  i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr", "pt-br", "es"],
    routing: {
      prefixDefaultLocale: true,
    }
  }
})
```

#### i18n.routing.redirectToDefaultLocale

[Section titled “i18n.routing.redirectToDefaultLocale”](#i18nroutingredirecttodefaultlocale)

**Type:** `boolean`\
**Default:** `true`

**Added in:** `astro@4.2.0`

Configures whether or not the home URL (`/`) generated by `src/pages/index.astro` will redirect to `/[defaultLocale]` when `prefixDefaultLocale: true` is set.

Set `redirectToDefaultLocale: false` to disable this automatic redirection at the root of your site:

astro.config.mjs

```js
export default defineConfig({
  i18n:{
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr"],
    routing: {
      prefixDefaultLocale: true,
      redirectToDefaultLocale: false
    }
  }
})
```

#### i18n.routing.fallbackType

[Section titled “i18n.routing.fallbackType”](#i18nroutingfallbacktype)

**Type:** `"redirect" | "rewrite"`\
**Default:** `"redirect"`

**Added in:** `astro@4.15.0`

When [`i18n.fallback`](#i18nfallback) is configured to avoid showing a 404 page for missing page routes, this option controls whether to [redirect](/en/guides/routing/#redirects) to the fallback page, or to [rewrite](/en/guides/routing/#rewrites) the fallback page’s content in place.

By default, Astro’s i18n routing creates pages that redirect your visitors to a new destination based on your fallback configuration. The browser will refresh and show the destination address in the URL bar.

When `i18n.routing.fallback: "rewrite"` is configured, Astro will create pages that render the contents of the fallback page on the original, requested URL.

With the following configuration, if you have the file `src/pages/en/about.astro` but not `src/pages/fr/about.astro`, the `astro build` command will generate `dist/fr/about.html` with the same content as the `dist/en/about.html` page. Your site visitor will see the English version of the page at `https://example.com/fr/about/` and will not be redirected.

astro.config.mjs

```js
export default defineConfig({
   i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr"],
    routing: {
      prefixDefaultLocale: false,
      fallbackType: "rewrite",
    },
    fallback: {
      fr: "en",
    }
  },
})
```

### i18n.domains

[Section titled “i18n.domains”](#i18ndomains)

**Type:** `Record<string, string>`\
**Default:** `{}`

**Added in:** `astro@4.3.0`

Configures the URL pattern of one or more supported languages to use a custom domain (or sub-domain).

When a locale is mapped to a domain, a `/[locale]/` path prefix will not be used. However, localized folders within `src/pages/` are still required, including for your configured `defaultLocale`.

Any other locale not configured will default to a localized path-based URL according to your `prefixDefaultLocale` strategy (e.g. `https://example.com/[locale]/blog`).

astro.config.mjs

```js
export default defineConfig({
   site: "https://example.com",
   output: "server", // required, with no prerendered pages
   adapter: node({
     mode: 'standalone',
   }),
   i18n: {
    defaultLocale: "en",
    locales: ["en", "fr", "pt-br", "es"],
    prefixDefaultLocale: false,
    domains: {
      fr: "https://fr.example.com",
      es: "https://example.es"
    }
  },
})
```

Both page routes built and URLs returned by the `astro:i18n` helper functions [`getAbsoluteLocaleUrl()`](/en/reference/modules/astro-i18n/#getabsolutelocaleurl) and [`getAbsoluteLocaleUrlList()`](/en/reference/modules/astro-i18n/#getabsolutelocaleurllist) will use the options set in `i18n.domains`.

See the [Internationalization Guide](/en/guides/internationalization/#domains) for more details, including the limitations of this feature.
